The use of single-sequence input protein language models (pLMs) for protein classification and prediction tasks is common. Some of these were inspired by BERT, where the masked language modeling (MLM) objective was adapted such that individual amino acid 'words' were masked in a single protein sequence 'sentence'. The next sentence prediction (NSP) task in BERT training was removed in these instances.

However, pLMs using paired protein sequence inputs (that is, inputs where a SEP or SEP-like token is used to separate two distinct peptide sequences in the input) have emerged in the years following the development of single-sequence pLMs. In these models, NSP-inspired training tasks and loss terms have been reintroduced. Using information prior to Jan 28th, 2026, locate all relevant papers, extract the requested information, and create the described graphic to summarize the protein relationships which have been deemed 'NSP-like'.

    1. Some models which are pLMs with NSP-like training tasks include PLUS-RNN, NABP-BERT, and PLM-Interact.  Consider the papers introducing these as the starting papers in a set of relevant papers to examine more deeply. For each of the relevant papers in the set, add any works the relevant paper claims also describes a paired input pLMs with NSP-like training tasks to the set.  Also, add modeling papers training paired input pLMs with NSP-like training tasks which cite the relevant paper to the set.  Note that the most recent version of each paper found (as of the cutoff date) should be used.
    2. For each paper in the final set, give a) the paper title, b) the relationship category label between two protein sequences which were considered to be 'next sentences' in the NSP-like learning task(s) (note: if there is more than one relationship used to construct protein sentence pairs for NSP-like learning, list all relevant relationships). Group the relationships between the two peptides in the pLM input used to define the NSP-like relationship into the following categories: physical (any relationship which involves the proteins acting on one another, such as protein-protein interactions), evolutionary (relationships based on similar evolutionary profiles or sequence alignment), or other.
    3. Calculate the percentage each category makes up of the total, then, make a pie chart showing the size of each category that uses the color red for the physical slice, blue for the evolutionary slice, and gray for the other slice.  Present the slices in alphabetical order in counterclockwise position starting from the top center of the circle (or, the 12 o'clock position).   For all slices present, label the slice with the category name outside of the pie chart.   Give the percent of the pie chart rounded to two decimal points centered in the slice of the category.  Finally, title the created pie chart 'Types of NSP-like relationships'.
